Spec event edits (#1211)
matrix-org/matrix-spec: content/client-server-api/_index.md

{{% /boxes/note %}}

To allow the server to aggregate and find child events for a parent, the `m.relates_to`

> key of an event MUST be included in the cleartext (unencrypted) part of the event. It cannot be

Reviewer: How it's presented in the edits module is clearer: the nearby examples help clarify what is being talked about, and the paragraphs take the time to be clear about what goes where. Unlike here, where the word "cleartext" (and "plaintext") is largely on its own, unsupported by other bits of text/examples.

I don't think we need to change the terminology in the edits module, but would suggest splitting this conversion out to its own PR so we can think about the surrounding text a bit more.

> key of an event MUST be included in the cleartext (unencrypted) part of the event. It cannot be

Author: "plaintext" is simply wrong here (plaintext is stuff that was/will be encrypted; cleartext is stuff that is never encrypted; cf https://www.hypr.com/cleartext/), so I was just trying to fix an error while I was in the area. Happy to punt it if you'd prefer though.

> key of an event MUST be included in the cleartext (unencrypted) part of the event. It cannot be

Reviewer: Punting it and calling it a release blocker clarification would be the ideal workflow here, I think.

> key of an event MUST be included in the cleartext (unencrypted) part of the event. It cannot be

Author: ```suggestion
key of an event MUST be included in the plaintext copy of the event. It cannot be
```

> key of an event MUST be included in the cleartext (unencrypted) part of the event. It cannot be

Author: filed as https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec/issues/1223. Not sure if it needs to actually be a blocker.

exclusively recorded in the encrypted payload as the server cannot decrypt the event
for processing.

{{% boxes/warning %}}
If an encrypted event contains an `m.relates_to` in its payload, it should be

> ignored and instead favour the cleartext `m.relates_to` copy (including when there
> is no cleartext copy). This is to ensure the client's behaviour matches the server's

Author: ```suggestion
ignored and instead favour the plaintext `m.relates_to` copy (including when there
is no plaintext copy). This is to ensure the client's behaviour matches the server's
```
